---
id: 'meta-getting-unstuck-blog-respawn'
title: 'Getting Unstuck / Blog Respawn'
date: '2021-04-11T22:12:03.284Z'
description: 'This post is unedited, but I''m not mature enough to not put this disclaimer.'
hero: './hero.jpg'
---

You know how when you're taking a shower and suddenly you have all these brilliant ideas and insights that start popping up in your head? Then you realize you don't have a way to write them down because you're fucking wet and your laptop or a pen or your iPad is somewhere unreachable at this very moment as you are applying soap to your crotch. And yet the ideas keep coming and then you now start talking to imaginary people, arguing your case about this and that and you win all the time because you are so enthralled by your own mind. You still have those thoughts as you're brushing your teeth and think maybe this conversation in your head can be a good blog post. Then you end up getting out of the bathroom and instead of going immediately to your laptop to type what you've just been thinking you go and put on clothes first, then maybe turn the AC on, or maybe have a sudden need to get water, then you see a notification on your phone. All the while those brilliant thoughts that you think you have recede without ever seeing the light of day. That's what happened just before I started typing this.

I've always wanted to restart writing in this blog. I've had this domain since 2016 and yet only wrote a total of 6 posts, some of them even a few years apart. My last lengthy post was basically a justification of *why* I wanted to create a website. It was well and good until I lost interest immediately after I posted it (after maybe reading it 50 more times to make sure my grammar was perfect). I'm pretty sure I'm not the only one who has done this. I've seen enough personal websites from other developers hosted on GitHub pages with nothing but a "Hi, I'm \<insert name here\>" with Lorem Ipsums as content. I mean sure, that's not a measure of how great you are as a programmer, but it sure does say something about you. Is it that you fail to commit to things when they're not going well? Are you too much of a perfectionist that you put up way too much friction in clicking publish? Or is there some deep-seated inner saboteur in you that feel like what you have to say isn't worth it because someone else knows better? Do I really need to add more content in a world where there's too much of it? Maybe all of that and more. And yet you still go back to it sometimes and think maybe I can start over.

In an effort to not hinder this flow of actually writing a blog, I vow not re-read it before I hit publish. That's another thing that makes it such a pain to write a blog, I keep rereading what I wrote instead of just moving on. I hold myself up to the same standard as my idols. If this is shit what does Frank Ocean or Kendrick Lamar have to say about me? They only put out art that they think are worthy of other people's attention. Shouldn't I only put out things that I think would have an impact? If Kanye can literally edit *The Life of Pablo* after he publishes it, why can't I reread my posts over and over until I feel like it's in the best form to go public?

After reading Walter Isaacson's *Leonardo da Vinci* I have this crippling fear that I end up like the guy having a ton of random notebooks that have so much promise but was never fruitful. But maybe what I missed there is that he has the best paintings the world has ever seen. How do you practice this kind of diffused interest and know where to go deep? Not everything has to be for public consumption. Isn't that what deleting Twitter and Facebook taught me?

I don't even know what this blog should be about. Is it about developer things? Productivity? My personal life (but who gives a fuck about that)? If I don't settle on a theme then it'll just be noise, or is that another self-sabotage thought before I even start?

I started keeping journals back in 2018. I'm not religious about it and it now has many forms. I started writing on physical notebooks, then on Notability, then moved it to Apple Notes, and now it's bite-sized thoughts on Notion. It's also crazy about the amount of time I spent *deciding* where to write things down. It brought about an epiphany that maybe too much choice is not always good. I finally understood that parable about that donkey who died because it was equally thirsty and hungry and couldn't decide if he's going to eat or drink when given both. People nowadays call it *first world problems*, but it's a hell lot harder if you knew what it meant to be poor. Maybe that's why we needed rules as children instead of us being allowed to be free? We craved for freedom but now I get so much of it I don't know what to do.

Right, the journals. Before I digressed I was going to say that my journals felt like rants most of the time. It's full of questions. I switch from first-person to third sometimes mid-sentence. I never re-read them even though I told myself that at some point I would. There's no feedback because as soon as I write it down my brain will try to forget about it or maybe store it in long-term memory, not being useful at all. If someone read them they'll see how much anger I had at some point in my life. And they'll see how I can write about anxiety on choosing journals to extending it to philosophical musings on freedom (see previous paragraph).

I don't really know why I started writing this down. I told myself that tonight I was just going to watch Wong Kar Wai's *The Grandmaster*, and here I am still typing random thoughts on my laptop thinking that maybe I should just publish it as a blog post to restart it. I'm fighting the urge to re-read it and edit it because that would mean that I'll spend more time on this than I should. Maybe this is what Kerouac meant when he typed *On The Road* continuously without ever stopping or editing to keep the authenticity intact. He was a lot more poetic than I am, but for some reason I was attracted to that idea. I considered that book my favorite when I was in university without actually having a concrete reason why. I knew that the dynamic between Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty resonated with me the way Sufjan Stevens' *The Predatory Wasp Of The Palisades Is Out To Get Us!* did. But the whole idea of putting up your subconscious for display and asking the world to get what they want from it, to see some light in the chaos, that's what stays with me until now — "I want to fish as deep down as possible into my own subconscious in the belief that once that far down everyone will understand, because they are the same that far down" — it's a Kerouac quote that I know by heart. I still believe in it, no matter how corny it sounded throughout the years. In this life, the only I thing I want, is to not be cynical enough to dismiss it.

_11 APRIL 2021, 22:31_